# Implementation of Two-List algorithm for the Subset-Sum problem on a cluster parallel machine

Problem statement: Given a set of positive integers N and a sum S, does there exist a subset N’ ⊆ N such that sum of all the elements in that subset is S. The subset-sum problem is a well-known non-deterministic polynomial-time complete (NPcomplete) decision problem and it is also a special case of 0-1 Knapsack problem. We have used java programming language and parallel java 2 library.

Implemented a sequential two-list algorithm which consists of Generation Stage and Search Stage. In Generation stage, input set N of size n is divided equally into sets N1 and N2 of size n/2. Produced all possible 2n/2 subset sums of the sets N1 and N2 and name those sets as L1 and L2 and then Sorted L1 into Ascending order and L2 into Descending order. In Search stage, Pick one element each from L1 and L2 and compare addition with target Sum S. If the addition is greater than S, then move one step ahead in L2 which is sorted in decreasing order. If addition is less than the sum, then move one step ahead in the List L1 which is sorted in increasing order. Keep repeating above two steps until we reach the end of the list or in between we find that sum which is equal to S.

The parallel two-list algorithm is similar to the sequential approach but the two-list generation stage will not happen in parallel. Two list are generated in parallel on different threads. Sublists are further divided into K blocks each where K is equal to number of threads and block pairs are generated from both the lists taking one block from each list. Remove the redundant blocks depending on sum S to reduce the search dataset. We performed the standard linear search as mentioned in the sequential approach.
